---
layout: post
title: Impetus. Or, Considering Beginnings
---

##### Draft 1
I'm debating whether or not to introduce this whole idea.[^1] I suppose the short of it is that I was inspired by a dear friend[^2] to create a space where I could work through ideas like they do. While I've left behind the moniker/role of student,[^3] I don't think I'll be able to (or would like to) shake that identity from my person. So, the short-short of it is that I thought this kind of thing would be beneficial for my intellectual development.

This creation is also partially influenced by a recent settling[^4] in my mind with regards to my career path. If we ignore the realities of the job market and the viability of singular career paths within it,[^5] I have envisioned the idea of a career with a heavier focus on teaching as increasingly appealing. (This, upon reflection, may be a better place to start than what I was planning on with this post).

Let's do that then. With a moderately forceful pivot:

For a large majority of my life, I have bounced around the idea of a career in teaching the way one might remember an old high school deskmate.[^6] Lightly, at irregular intervals, with only vague interest. I was not convinced that I'd make a good teacher: I was the kind of child who, once I learned a topic, got extremely impatient when others learned it slower than me, and I was told explicitly[^7] that I would not make a good teacher because of it. As I've moved through graduate school,[^8] I have found myself (I hope) a more patient teacher and more interested in pedagogy than I expected. 

In my flavor of graduate school, we are required to TA for at least our first year. I had an alright time doing it?[^9] The unfortunate part of the curriculum I was teaching under was that we were expressly told to limit teaching wherever possible, so as not to deviate/influence the children under our instruction over other sections. I was functionally a Google search with a chemistry filter applied. I taught some anyway (because I don't believe in giving out answers immediately), and I think it was generally well-received. I got good feedback on my TA evaluations,[^10] and I hope I came off as a TA would was personable and helpful. (I had a student ask me to write a letter of recommendation for them to transfer schools because I had talked about my own experience and feelings, so I feel pretty confident in the latter point). 

A pivotal moment came when all the course TAs met with the instructor to discuss our own feedback for how the course was run. Let's be frank: there was a lot of work that these students were expected to do.[^11] I know there was, in theory, a reason for why they would assign all the various kinds of work, since a path in our department is dedicated to researching education. But, (and this is what I mentioned at the meeting) the reality I consistently found was that this put certain students at a strong disadvantage: the students who were part-time, who worked a job in addition to school, who commuted to the university, who had other circumstances which took their time (e.g. children). I asked if anything would be put in place to help them, and the response I got was a non-answer. 

If we attempt to view the whole picture of me+teaching, then I feel it important to mention here that I had a couple of teachers throughout my education who had... radical?[^12] ideas about both teaching and grading. I loved these classes, for what and how they taught, and I am certain that they have influenced my beliefs about teaching/being an educator.[^13] 

So, altogether, I was frustrated by the response I got. Toss in some education research seminars I went to a couple years later, my interest rises. Recognize that a reason I debated doing R1 was because I could teach students in the way that I was not taught myself etc. etc. There's also this recent realization: my flavor of research is... male/male-presenting-centric.[^14] My higher-level education has been taught by male professors, but I had a surprising number of female professors in my undergraduate. Well, truth be told, the gender divide doesn't really matter; I had some great profs, and not great profs, of both genders. But, there is something to be said for representing what you want to see in the world. Little me would have loved to see a young female[^15] professor teaching physical chemistry.

But, as I've hinted, I'm not interested in doing an R1. Or, I'm not interested in the realistic consequences that come from having an R1 position.[^16] But I think a PUI[^17] position could be fulfilling! I enjoy the academic environment, the ability to mentor students about research, teaching (especially if given control over how the course is taught), doing some research over the summer, and grading is fine enough. A PUI position is still difficult, but to my understanding,[^18] there is more heterogeneity in what PUI's expect of their hires, and thus, more heterogeneity in number/level of difficulties to face. 

When I discussed all of this with my committee a couple of weeks ago, they did not attempt to dissuade me from such profession,[^19] but they did mention that the desire for mentorship can be met in other types of professions as well (i.e. industry or national labs). While I agree with the take, I find that my brain thinks of mentoring new industry people[^20] differently than mentoring undergraduates. Nevertheless, I will take their advice on being open to applying for positions outside of academia.

What was the focus of all this again? Ah, a scroll up confirms: why I'm finding a career focused in teaching more appealing.

As I stated earlier, I do feel more settled, but I wouldn't say I am fully decided yet. We (I) can talk theory all we/I want, but that can vastly differ from the reality of things.[^21] For the time being, I will likely use this space as one to reflect on the education research papers I'm reading,[^22] but truth be told I will probably write about whatever calls to me.


##### Draft 2, or a very long postscript to Draft 1
In these readings (which I have not delved into here, but hope to soon), I screenshotted a portion of it to send to a dear friend, and they replied asking what my thoughts were about the quote. I am always appreciative when I am asked to give my opinion, but the conversation in general is worthwhile so I'd like to extend it here. 

The quote I sent to my friend was the last two sentences, but for more context I think it worthwhile to expand it: 
> Science does not reveal foundational, ultimate truth, at lease not in the permanent, unchanging sense that we normally associate with the word...
> 
> ...If science doesn't produce absolute truth, what does it produce? Here there is less consensus, but a reasonable starting place is that science produces *pretty good knowledge* (Feinstein and Waddington 2020).

With the context of the quote relating to the public's engagement with science in a "post-truth" or "fake news" era. 

My response to my friend fell into general agreement with the quote. There's a high value associated with science -- as logical, objective, more correct, better than, *truer* -- and it is an easy[^23] extension to use that value judgement alone as proof of a better argument.  This is an extremely slippery slope, given the actual nature of science as a field.[^24] 

This same practice is used with a number of things even within science. It is extremely common to teach some scientific concepts (e.g. an atom, or orbitals) "somewhat correctly" as if they were fact when students are younger, then reteach the nuanced, more correct picture later on. 

"This model of the atom is correct." Until it isn't
"This model of orbitals is correct." Until it isn't
"Science is correct." Until it isn't

I understand the intention behind the practice, but... well, we all know the saying.[^25] It occurs to me: do other fields do this? Mathematics, yes, though I think the concepts are framed differently.[^26] Physics, well, I suppose physics is included in science.[^28] The humanities? I suppose if you had a poor history teacher, they may simplify the motivations behind historical events.[^27] But generally, no for the humanities. 

This may be something to discuss in its own post (and functionally what my friend's full response was), but I *may* believe that individual knowledge (or fact) can only capture part of Truth, but that art, individually, can capture the whole of Truth. I would need to consider it more, but I feel pretty good about the statement. I suppose I don't often think about truth vs Truth in my daily life, but now I could do so here if I wished!

I have mostly lost the mental thread of all of this, but I think its a good place to start. It does not elude me that this is a shiny new toy for my brain to play with, so my motivation to write here will be fairly strong. The real question is how long I can stick with it. It also occurs to me that I may be stretching myself too thin (I do have another site I write on, though the topic is different.)[^29] But, it is a more casual style of writing? So maybe it'll be nice. I need to instill in my brain that while I can edit these posts to sound/read nicely, it does not mean I have to have a complete argument before posting. After all, the tentative title is *Considerations*. Here's to beginnings.




[^1]: The whole idea of the website, not of this post. I'll be doing the latter shortly

[^2]: Most (all, really) of my public writings are inspired by or were created through the encouragement of dear friends. Thank you to both of them

[^3]: Or soon will be, a concept which strikes me with fear

[^4]: This may not be the more accurate term linguistically, but it catches the feeling right now

[^5]: And trust me, I so dearly want to

[^6]: "Oh yeah, that person. I wonder what they're up to"

[^7]: Not maliciously, (my mother told me this, and she was very correct at the time) 

[^8]: And the question of privacy w/ respect to personal detail begins...

[^9]: My memory of that time is very foggy; people say that the first year feels like trying not to drown, and I agree wholeheartedly

[^10]: I feel like I heard something about the accuracy of course evaluations, but I can't remember. I imagine, like all assessments, there are disadvantages/biases etc...

[^11]: By extension, lots of things for me to grade. while annoying in my first year (see: drowning), I'm not opposed to the act of grading. I just try to treat it as a high accuracy speedrun each time, which is extremely fun

[^12]: Non-traditional, maybe?  

[^13]: (Is this a pedagogical stance?) It feels prideful to say I already have one when I have such little experience

[^14]: Well, this part was not a recent realization, let's be clear.

[^15]: For this intent and purpose

[^16]: Scrambling for grant money to keep your career/group afloat and to pay back the school for the giant start-up loan they gave you, the lack of time such that you are either a poor mentor, poor teacher, or poor person-with-life-outside-of-work. there just seem to be people who are "built" for R1, and they always have a crazy look in their eyes and poor work-life boundaries. honestly, my thoughts on this could be a whole post in itself.

[^17]: Primarily Undergraduate Institution. The function is in the name, but these are typically smaller colleges scattered across the US. Unclear if they make this same distinction in other countries.

[^18]: Based on what I've heard from talking to a ex-PUI prof and my thesis committee

[^19]: Which I would hopefully expect if they truly thought I was not suited to the work. A nonanswer is some kind of answer, and all that

[^20]: After all, isn't this just onboarding?

[^21]: Oo, a post on the deviance between theory and experiment? Upon pedagogy and teaching? Upon philosophy and moral decision making? Though, I'm not sure there's a whole lot to say.

[^22]: I'm not able to take a dedicated course on it, as the next time it will be taught is after I've (in theory) defended, but the syllabus is online so I'm just reading all of the materials week by week like I would in the course. The syllabus also lists that they had required writing reflections, so... you can see where I went with that.

[^23]: Lazy

[^24]: What scientific study are you citing? Who did that research, and how? Is it ethical? Does it have a robust sample size? Is it backed by corporations which seek to further their own ends? What claims are they making, and how confidently? The list goes on. Not to mention that using a value judgement as sole proof of your argument is an inherently weak choice.

[^25]: Intention means little in the face of the impact

[^26]: Something something, using rectangles to calculate area under a curve, then learning integrals

[^27]: Or, if extremely poor, leave them out entirely, cough cough, critical race theory

[^28]: Though I feel like they really drive home that there is the "classical" model and the "quantum" model, each with its pros and cons

[^29]: If you know, you know
