---
layout: post
title: Wk 2 Reflection and Wk 1 Response
---

### Version 1
There's a lot to respond to with regards to J's post, which is exciting and daunting. I don't think I'll be able to address everything, but upon reflection I don't think that's the point either. 

Before we get there, there are a couple of things on my mind. An old (and favorite) high school teacher of mine ran a semi-known[^11] blog while I was a student; I scrounged around on the webs and was able to find it again. Funnily enough, he still uses it, which is cool. I was reading his posts on education and he mentions a quote from a news org[^1] suggesting that STEM majors are less politically active[^2] than their humanitarian peers.[^3] I suppose this makes sense on reflection, but I must also admit that these are outdated studies by many years. Sure, community bias and all, but I don't know anyone in my circle who does not vote or participate politically in some form.[^4] 

Hmm. Maybe what I was going to say doesn't quite work. I can certainly say that I don't believe science education has gotten more civically minded in the past 10 years or so, and, again, I don't know of anyone who is completely politically ambivalent.[^5] So my argument of "yes, grounding science education in context with other principles is worthwhile because of this finding" doesn't really work.[^6] Well but there is a difference between a STEM major and my flavor of graduate student too though...

Anyway, J directly responded to my thoughts on Physical Chemistry courses re: making it further applicable to everyday usage; they cited that the goal of advanced classes is focused on making certain operations rote, rather than the goal of applicability. I think this is correct, and does not quite address what I meant.[^7] I don't think advanced courses need to be made more applicable -- doing so would dilute the content and thus harm the goal of the course -- but I do wish that advanced courses[^8] were more *contextualized* in their fields. I'm going to briefly assume that students enrolled in PChem will likely be staying in or adjacent to chemistry in some form for their career.[^9] Within PChem itself (PChem academia, let's be clear), there exist two main paths: experimental and theoretical. Both will need the skills taught in PChem (concepts and operations), but my tentative opinion is that the course is not *that* grounded in either field. I should be precise -- it's grounded in the way that the concepts taught in the course are fundamental theory upon which the field sits. Basically, I want word problems in PChem where the problems are relevant to what you'd see in the field. Sure, I do need to know how to solve the time-independent Schrod. equation for particle on a ring because those operations are important to master, but I would retain the information far better if I knew that I could use it to approximate an electron in a conjugated pi system of an aromatic molecule. In summary, maybe what I take issue with is this feeling of division between theory (or rote operations)[^23] and experiment. Does a child know to look at price per unit and quantity to get total cost because they fundamentally understand the concept of multiplication, or because they saw a math problem on last night's homework about this exact thing, except with watermelons instead of apples? Either case can be true there, but once mathematical concepts get more difficult, and more abstract, then contextual examples become more and more worthwhile for students, I think.

Maybe this all falls down to personal grievances with my own education. Which could be true,[^22] but does not necessarily invalidate the overarching opinion I suppose.[^17] In any case, I'm very pleased to have J with me on this endeavor, because they very rightfully pointed out biases[^24] of the author that I didn't catch the first go around. As mentioned,[^25] they have some hesitancies about the course listings (etc), and I think it's good practice to be cautious.[^26]

//

While I babysit my cryo, let's address the readings. The theme this week is "Early Theories of Learning," and these are indeed the classics: classical conditioning (Pavlov), operant conditioning (Thorndike, Skinner),[^12] and piagetian structures (Piaget).[^13] In the interest of time[^14] and my own motivations, I won't be re-hashing the tenants of each theory. Instead I'm just going to briefly run through the thoughts I left in the margins while reading them. 

The text offers several questions throughout that I found useful to think about. One such: "Is learning best conceived as a change in behavior, or is something left out by this account," following an excerpt from Skinner, who argues that studying learning and behavior must be restricted to "observables."[^15] 

Learning can result in a change of behavior, but not always. What one learns certainly matters. There's a large behavior change in early learning -- think: walking, speaking, using a tissue -- but what about subjects in school? Sure, the change in behavior may be that they could answer a question they couldn't before, but is that enough to say they've learned it? I'm not inclined to say so.[^16] What about mental frameworks? Learning how to be more x, y, z? One can learn about frameworks without implementing them. Tl;dr: so much of life requires learning -- *so much* -- that I hesitate to define learning solely by behavioral changes. And is it really enough to define learning solely on its outcomes? Is it learned only if it results in a behavior change? I could see an argument where some learned (past tense) results in some behavior change, but what about learning (the gerund)? Learning, is a transitive state, a process, a modality of play, perhaps? (In these late hours I fear I'm dipping into the philosophical when a main point of the reading was that these theories were conceived out of frustration with the Lockian/Plato views of learning. Maybe, truthfully, I am endeavoring to make a *stance* out of all of this, when I just need to engage with it. I can always revisit topics if I so choose.)

Ah, next there was a bit on rewards. With both classical and operant conditioning, there is a reward present (usually external, either consistent or random depending on which theory you're discussing). But, in the last example of the first reading, they present an exploratory science class, where a student tests various ways of lighting a lightbulb. Some ways work, some ways don't. There is a spin where the reward is the lightbulb lighting up, and that the various ways operate as giving that reward "randomly," but in this (fake) case, the first two methods don't work, yet the student continues. What drives the continuance? There's the external pressure to try all various routes (as that was the instruction given by the educator, see power), but I can see a possibility where testing forward "routes" is also a pleasurable activity in and of itself.[^20] Is there desire to see the lightbulb lit?[^21] 

Oh my other interesting, but somewhat unrelated, thought is that learning in school cannot be considered as learning in a vacuum. Aforementioned teacher-student power dynamics[^18], student backgrounds,[^19] the actual subject matter (and competence of the educator), hell, we could talk about time of day even. But that's a whole consideration for another day.


---
[^1]: One I should look into more -- Collecting good (read: rigorous, has integrity etc) sources for news is always nice

[^2]: voting, campaign donation -- though that's *rife* with contributing factors --, attending meetings, a general "social activism" that I'm sure I could define more thoroughly if I read the linked research paper, but it's late and I don't wanna read 110 pages rn. 

[^3]: those with humanities degrees, not humanitarians the pseudo-profession. (again, its late, broad definition of humanitarian, I'm not defining it for you rn)

[^4]: donations? well, we're poor you see. 

[^5]: I could maybe guess at who *could* be, but that's judgey and horrible evidence

[^6]: though, I do believe in the statement. just don't think I can cite that as evidence for claim.

[^7]: I mostly attribute this to my very ramble-y post, as my thoughts on PChem were only half-relevant to the readings.[^10] J and I briefly, but not infrequently, comment on systematic miscommunications we have, and I'm intrigued to see how that plays out now that we're doing writing tag. vote in the comments, better or worse?

[^8]: like PChem, but I suppose the arg might work with others if I thought enough

[^9]: Physics (with its hosts of subfields), analytical chem, astronomy etc.

[^10]: I'm trying to be clear because I can see a possibility where J and I negatively fuel our own RSDs by correcting/responding to one another, but also they like debates so maybe that's just me? Also yay nested footnote!

[^11]: known to the students, anyway, not sure about the larger populace

[^12]: The first reading contained these two, titled: Behaviorism

[^13]: This was the second reading..

[^14]: Oops this is late, yikes.

[^15]: measurable quantities that can be externally validated

[^16]: There's a whole mess about retention that I may bring up later, or may not. 

[^17]: I did take my pchem and achem courses (lecture and lab) during the pandemic, so I really got stunted there. But I don't think they were taught much differently (or much poorer) than what I've heard about from others?

[^18]: wk 1 reflection

[^19]: sociocultural, economic, performance in prior levels of education, personal preferences -- some prefer math, some history etc --, whether they have friends, did they transfer into school or not, do they have a job, a family to provide for? i could very easily go on

[^20]: I certainly feel this anyway

[^21]: desire to produce an effect on the world through one's own hands?

[^22]: if I saw down to interrogate it more thoroughly

[^23]: I'm doing a huge disservice to the theory community by simplifying their field to rote operations, and I'm fully aware. I know there is beauty is theoretical development (as M would surely discuss at length about), but that's getting us sidetracked.

[^24]: for legal, potential 

[^25]: on their post, can I do direct links here? (probably, but can't be bothered to look rn)

[^26]: especially when considering academic pedagogy research
